[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>BLU: The doctor swiveled
around on his chair
and looked at me and
he says, your results
are actually very concerning.
You have the hearing results
of about of an 80-year-old.
The words have become quieter
recognizing that energy doesn't
lie, words do all the time.
I remember reading
that gene key,
and it genuinely felt like my
DNA was restructuring itself
in real time.
When I put the hearing
aids in, it's so jarring.
Apparently it takes three weeks
to adjust to hearing aids.
It's like--
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Metal grinding.
>>BLU: Yeah.
Our greatest spiritual currency
that exists is our attention.
That's why it's constantly
being fought for all the time.
When we can actually
sit in a relationship
with a group of women and
to transcend competition
into inspiration, that's when
our geniuses can start to swap.
We'll go down in, and then up.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BLU: It's not, ah, prr.
>>REGINA: Today's guest has
had an interesting and mystical
journey with deafness.
As it turns out, this
trait has many dimensions,
which all of us may share.
She turned deafness into a
transformative experience
after becoming involved
with the gene keys.
And welcome, Blu.
So good to meet you.
>>BLU: Thank you so much.
Such an honor to
be here with you.
>>REGINA: And we're
going to be talking
about all of this,
your personal journey,
and then you're
going to be really,
I think, the first one
introducing my audience
to "The Gene Keys."
And just so they know
the founder, the one who
created "The Gene Keys," Richard
Rudd, who you and I both know,
will be coming here also.
So this is a wonderful
entree for the audience
to tap into just one or two keys
that really can affect everyone
in which you and I share.
And so I just want
to say to everyone
we have a little dog,
your little service dog.
Lilly is on your lap.
So if you ever see a
little-- you a little
tuft poke up right here, it's
a little service dog, Lilly.
She's a sweetie pie.
So first of all,
let's talk about what
happened in your life where
you began to physically use
your sense of hearing and
you and your brother both
and what your life was
like prior to that,
and then what started unfolding.
>>BLU: So like you said,
I wasn't born with this.
This was something that
was new into my world.
And how I started
noticing it is actually
I realized that when the
hearing starts decrease,
it's actually not me
that's noticing it.
It's those that are
around me that notices it.
I'm in my ignorance, just bliss.
And then I started noticing
these comments of, all right,
come on, Blu, clean
your ears out.
Why aren't you paying attention?
Or you're not responding
when I'm looking at you?
And so it was in those
moments of reflections
was when it was
starting to be brought
into my field of awareness.
>>REGINA: So you really weren't
noticing that the world is
becoming more quiet.
>>BLU: It started
becoming muffled
a little bit but not to the
point that was concerning.
And it wasn't until
I was actually
having lunch with my family,
and my brother was also there.
And he mentioned-- he'd say, mom
my hearing starting to become
muffled, and I'm getting
a lot of reflections
from people saying that
I'm not paying attention.
That was then what sparked my
realization that I was also
experiencing the same thing.
So still at this point
it's very innocent.
And we went to the
doctor, and we both
had our hearing checked.
And I'll remember that moment
for the rest of my life
is happened in slow-mo when
the doctor swiveled around
on his chair and put his glasses
from the bridge of my nose up
and looked at me.
And he says, your results
are actually very concerning.
You have the hearing results
of about of an 80-year-old.
And I'm in my mid
20s at this point.
And he said, well,
we won't really
understand what is
actually happening
until extensive testing over
a prolonged period of time
to see if it's getting worse.
However, what I can say is
that your brother also has
very similar shocking results.
And so it's most likely
to be hereditary.
>>REGINA: How old was
your brother at the time?
>>BLU: My brother is
three years older than me.
>>REGINA: OK, so his late 20s.
>>BLU: So he's still in his
late 20s, yeah, late 20s.
I'm in my mid 20s at this point.
And so we go home.
And this is quite jarring
for my mother and our family.
And so over the next
six months, we're
going and testing
every single month
to just continue to check
the hearing as is unraveling
over time.
And during that
time, that's when
it started coming into
my conscious awareness.
So I started noticing
it more and more
that I was in social
settings, and I
would experience this
new phenomenon, which
was social anxiety.
I would be in a
group conversation,
and someone would
say something and it
would ping across the
other side of the room
to someone else
saying something,
and all of a sudden I have
no idea what's going on.
Everyone's laughing
at some joke.
I feel very alone in the space.
And it started progressing
to the point where I actually
didn't want to be out
in public anymore.
And so the diagnosis over
a prolonged period of time
was that it's
progressive, meaning
that it's getting worse.
It's hereditary,
meaning that it's
potentially came from a
genetic within our family.
>>REGINA: And is
it normal that it
would have a late onset like
that, this particular kind
of deafness?
>>BLU: They couldn't
really give it
a diagnosis in the sense
of what was causing it.
They didn't really understand
fully the extent of the genetic
or what was really happening.
And they didn't really
know the trajectory
of where it was going.
And so there was a lot of
big question marks placed
on such a massive
piece to be integrated
in my early 20s or mid 20s.
So it's been a wild
journey since then
of learning how to navigate the
world with one sense starting
to significantly
become decreased
over time, my brother
also navigating
in his own unique way.
>>REGINA: So in each of your
cases, how-- to what percentage
was your hearing decreased?
>>BLU: We're at about
70% both of us deafness.
So we have about 30%
hearing in both our ears
left at this point.
>>REGINA: So what's
that block out?
First of all, what do you
simply not hear in the spectrum?
>>BLU: So I'm completely
deaf on my high tones.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BLU: So, for example,
do we get in the car
and the car is like, beep, beep,
beep, put on your seat belt.
I don't hear that.
My dog crying at a really
high pitch like whining,
I don't hear that.
There's certain frequencies
that just completely go over
my head.
And I'm above average
on my low tones.
So, for example, a woman's
voice in a public space--
the low tone is the
background noise,
the high tone is
the woman's voice.
All of a sudden
the woman's voice
now sounds like (HUMMING).
A man's voice in
the same situation I
may hear better because
it's operating more
on the lower tones.
So it was such an
interesting new terrain
for me to learn to navigate
how frequencies work
and that there are constant
frequencies operating
all around us, and it
depends on what frame I'm in,
depends on how much I'm hearing
and what I'm picking up on.
>>REGINA: OK, so you get the
news this is progressive.
Now, has it been progressive?
Or did it stop around 70%?
Or you don't know yet?
>>BLU: It started to
become progressive,
but at the same time, my inquiry
around a deeper meaning of life
and subscribing to the
belief that I can heal myself
from anything and
asking why did I create
this in the first place
therefore giving myself
the ownership of being
able to actually shift it
has massively catalyzed
my spiritual growth
and my understanding on my inner
workings and my inner world.
And so as the diagnosis
was presented,
so was the parallel
path of wanting
to know myself not
from the outside
in of what the world expects
from me but from the inside
out, ask deeper questions that
allows me to actually become
the creator of my
own experience,
not the victim of
my circumstances.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So do you think that actually
has slowed or maybe even
stopped the progression?
>>BLU: Yes.
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
>>BLU: And to an extent
of also recognizing
that realizing in this realm
where the words have become
quieter, recognizing
that energy doesn't lie,
words do all the time.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BLU: And so what
it was doing--
and Albert Einstein
talks about how
energy is not created nor
destroyed only changed in form.
So when the sense or the energy
that was going towards hearing
has now just been redirected
to the extrasensory perception
of feeling.
When you sit in
front of somebody
and you can feel somebody,
you can feel that essence.
You can feel what it is
that they may be thinking.
And it's based off of how
the body on a somatic level
receives it.
So what I was starting
to open up the door to
was the realm of feeling that--
>>REGINA: Makes perfect sense.
>>BLU: --hasn't had a massive
emphasis on growing up.
And realizing that as
I started to recognize
that this could be
actually a gift,
that was when it seemed
to stop in its tracks.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
So as we're talking right
now, you're reading my lips,
and I have a fairly soft voice.
Can you hear much
of my voice at all?
>>BLU: I hear your voice
to a certain degree,
and I'm matching your voice
with what your lips are saying.
And also on top of that,
I'm reading an energy.
I'm seeing your eye contact.
I'm feeling the
shifts in your body.
There's a lot of communication,
a very high percentage
of communication that's
actually nonverbal.
And because we're so
reliant on our five senses,
that we don't give ourselves the
gift of really actually tapping
into the non-sensory
realm, which
is actually operating
24/7 at all times.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
OK so at what point--
was there ever
a point where it was
discussed that maybe you
should learn signing?
Or did you not need to
because you had already
developed the ability to read
lips and hear to an extent?
Did signing ever come into it?
>>BLU: Sign language
is something
that I would absolutely
adore to get into.
I haven't gone into it yet.
More so my main focus
has been on adjusting
with such adaptable
human beings.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
>>BLU: Adjusting my current
way of processing information
in a way that allows
me to still be
able to retain as much, if not
more, information, remain fully
present, receive the
gift of who you are,
while also allowing
myself to not miss out
on anything that is
happening in my world.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BLU: And, dot, dot,
dot, to be continued,
would love to learn sign
language at some point.
And recognizing I can't
be the only one that
learns sign language, I got
to bring my friend in with me,
otherwise I'd be
the only one having
a conversation with me, myself,
and I. So it's a mutual thing.
>>REGINA: OK, so do
your friends ever
use you at a social gathering,
say, what are they saying?
[LAUGHS] Read lips.
>>BLU: Well, I'm--
>>REGINA: Has that ever happened
where someone says, come here,
come here.
What are they saying?
It's kind of
cheating, but do they?
>>BLU: Not so much
about reading the lips
but more so about what's
your read on this person.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>BLU: So it's like, hey,
Blu, come on in here.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BLU: What's your read?
And what's your
extrasensory energy
picking up on this individual?
So it's almost like having
a sniffer dog in this space
but in human form, and (SNIFFS)
Yeah, they're pretty cool.
>>REGINA: Yeah, very cool.
OK, so now we start
going into the story
that I mentioned in the open.
Having to do with part of
this transformation process,
along the way you
encountered the gene keys.
So let me just set up very
briefly, Richard Rudd, who
I've had people ask me for
years and years to interview,
I keep hearing-- he seems so
beloved, but I didn't know him.
But I didn't know about
the basic architecture
before "Gene Keys"
called "Human Design."
And I was very
well aware of that.
So I just hadn't been
pressed into learning more.
And so we're talking about
a very elegant system,
both human design and a great
structure architecture, which
he was a devotee
of many years ago,
and then he had
his own downloads.
"The Gene Keys"
were birthed, which
is a very, very poetic,
sophisticated, profound means
of understanding ourselves.
And so you came in contact
with "The Gene Key."
So now you share your story.
>>BLU: So I--
after my diagnosis,
decided to book a one-way ticket
and go and experience life
because tomorrow
wasn't going to.
I bought myself a
guitar, and I was
adamant about learning how
to play and to sing because I
didn't know if I was going to be
able to hear my own voice again
or hear music.
So nothing was guaranteed.
So I decided to go
traveling around the world.
And I took this guitar with
me and learned a few chords
and started singing and feeling
the vibration of my voice.
And I remember being in a
space that my friends pushed
across the table
this giant book.
I mean, it's hefty.
>>REGINA: But "The
Gene Keys" book is--
it's a tome.
>>BLU: It's already off-putting
for a lot of people.
They're like, that's a lot.
No, thanks.
And she said, I think you'd
really appreciate this book.
Now, I opened it up.
And at that time
in my life, I just
was not a vibrational
match to the information.
Here comes Lilly, surprise!
>>REGINA: Here she is.
>>BLU: I was not a vibrational
match to the information.
And so I had it on my
shelf, but I didn't dive
into it for a while afterwards.
And then there was one
moment where I was like, OK,
this is the time I'm going
to get into this book.
And now once I actually
started to realize
and deeper level
of understanding
of what "The Gene Keys" is,
it's so much more than a book.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BLU: It's a living
transmission that you
can never really exhaust.
And it is a code
book of consciousness
to understand oneself
and understand
that our greatest challenge
holds the seed of our greatest
gift.
Now, at my dismay, I was
going through the book
and realized that I had
this gene key of deafness.
>>REGINA: We were
going to dive way
into that for all of our sakes.
>>BLU: When I saw that word,
and while I was processing
the curriculum that life had
presented me with my hearing,
I remember reading
that gene key,
and it genuinely felt like my
DNA was restructuring itself
in real time.
It was like a psychedelic
altered state of consciousness
that left knee in a
place of speechless
and timelessness and pure awe.
I remember that day
in that moment--
and I will remember it
for the rest of my life--
just sitting in my little
cabin in the forest crying with
the potential that my
deafness actually wasn't--
>>REGINA: It was a gift.
>>BLU: It was a gift.
I had been gifted it.
And also recognizing that the
overarching theme of "The Gene
Keys" is that everybody is dealt
certain cards in this life that
are challenging,
that are painful,
that are discombobulating,
that leave us on our knees
questioning why.
And right within
that challenge also
holds the seed of
our greatest gift
and are ultimately our
service to the whole.
And so maybe not everybody
relates to the deafness.
However, I'm sure everybody
can relate to a challenge.
And so when I
understood that actually
in "The Gene Keys" there's
the challenge, the shadow,
there's also the gift.
And then in the
highest expression,
there's this CD,
which is essentially
the enlightened aspect
where maximum out of light
is entering our DNA.
Now, we are vibrational
beings, and ultimately it's
never ending inwards, and
it's never ending externally,
meaning that we have around 75
trillion cells in the body that
are vibrating.
And ultimately
they have two jobs.
Really what it comes
down is to listen
and to respond to the story,
60,000 thoughts we think a day,
on average.
The cells are listening
and responding
to whatever we are
telling ourselves
and how far our imagination
is willing to go.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BLU: And so if I could
only be limited to, oh,
all this is just the worst
thing that could happen to me,
and this is super sad--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BLU: --then my cells are
listening and going, OK,
then that's the truth of it.
>>REGINA: Yes.
So we're going to dive
into that key number
43 that has deafness,
epiphany, insight
because every one of the
keys starts with the shadow.
And so Richard really gives--
I think, "Gene Keys," the
work, gives people permission
to look at the shadow
and to allow themselves
to take in what there is to
gain from that because then it
guides you right on through
to the gift of each one.
So it's a very complete way of
acknowledging one's full self.
So I'll just tell a
little experience.
About a year ago, I think
there were three of us.
I was here in Boulder.
And a couple of
girlfriends were with me.
And we all got our profiles,
our gene key profiles,
which anyone can go to
genekeys.com and pull up
their free profile.
We pulled up our profiles, and
we had the book-- the big book.
And what I found so fascinating
was that in the case of women--
and I don't know that this
would be the same way with men--
the women were happy to
acknowledge and accept
their shadows but had a
much more difficult time
accepting their gift.
It was very interesting.
And so having each other read
together and study it together
gave us an opportunity
to validate the beauty
in each other that oftentimes
women are shut down
from seeing.
Just because of
the patriarchy, we
have learned to
minimize our value.
And I was watching it in action
and thought this is amazing.
It's so beautiful that we can
validate each other and say,
absolutely you
have that strength.
That is your gift.
So it's lovely to do in
group, not just individually.
Yeah.
>>BLU: I love that you
said that because it really
gave me a new definition of
what it means to hold space.
And what I believe that truly
means is that when somebody is
in their shadow, A.K.A. a
negative thought pattern,
a belief system that is an
illusion that is a couple
of degrees away from
who they truly are,
when we can witness somebody
that is present within that
narrative and to hold also in
the same breath the potential--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BLU: --that they can live
into and seeing their potential
and loving their potential
and knowing their potential,
that is the opportunity
to catalyze them
into their greatness
because to truly see someone
in the entirety of their--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BLU: --being is
the greatest gift.
>>REGINA: It gives
language for it.
And it gives poetic,
beautiful language
for it and truthful language.
You can't really escape.
I mean, when I first read
my profile, I thought, oh,
my God, just this little four--
the four primary
areas of your life
that it illustrates
in a paragraph or two,
I thought, jeez, I do need
to interview this man.
So I am.
He's coming in a
couple of months time.
So anyway, but he
has great respect
for what you've done with
it, by the way, because I
spoke to him about it.
And he said you're really
magnificent in interpretation.
And I understand you help
other people understand
that you read.
You help them read
their gene keys
and embrace and
understand the knowledge.
Is that true?
>>BLU: It is true.
So after I went
through my whole chart
and just had this massive
activation around it--
when I believe in
something-- it's
called heart marketing
in "The Gene Keys."
When I believe in
something, I want
to shout it from the rooftops.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>BLU: Oh my gosh,
this is brilliant.
Everybody gets to
have a gene key book--
>>REGINA: No wonder
Richard loves you so much.
You're the roof crier.
>>BLU: And so I just started
reading my friends gene.
Just like you did.
You brought it your sisters,
and you just went into it.
And it was just coming and being
born from a natural curiosity.
And then it just organically
started to unravel to the point
where I actually decoded
the entire book--
>>REGINA: Jeez,
that's something.
>>BLU: --every single gene
key in my own note form.
And what it did is
it changed my lens
on perceiving reality
based off of archetypes
of recognizing that our greatest
challenge is our greatest gift.
There's a shadow,
and there's a gift.
And there's a city to
everything, the sweet polarity
and the paradox of being alive.
And it changed my way of
processing challenging times.
It allowed me to soften more.
It allowed me to recognize
that the more I actually
soften as opposed to hardened
against times of resistance
is actually when the upgrade,
the insight, the light
could enter into the cracks.
And so also when I was doing the
readings, what I was doing was
I was partnering my ability
to feel somebody based off
of my hearing and
the gift that was
presented through my hearing.
While partnering it
with that gene key chart
and reading the
holo-genetic profile,
then feeling what's going on in
the individual, what I would do
is I would partner the
information together,
and then reflect the beauty
that I saw in that individual.
And ultimately, the greatest
gift we can give to somebody
is to listen intently,
ask great questions,
and reflect the
beauty that you see.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
So now let's go into
that little pesky
key that happens to
be my top key as well.
>>BLU: Your life's work.
>>REGINA: My life's work, which
is deafness through epiphany
insights.
>>BLU: So insight again--
>>REGINA: Insight--
>>BLU: --and then epiphany.
>>REGINA: --and epiphany as yes.
So let's talk about
that in terms of you
went through it
quite literally to go
through this transformation.
But many, many, many
people watching this
have 43 gene key in there
somewhere, this deafness.
And so for myself
I noticed that,
and relatively recently,
where I have allowed
myself to live in happy--
I don't know if I'd go so
far as saying delusions.
But when you're ignoring
something in depth
to something, it almost does
create a type of delusion.
When you have a happy,
little scenario,
a story in your head where
everything's wonderful,
the happily ever
after kinds of stories
we tell ourselves in life,
and we're not actually-- we're
deaf to the signs that are
literally all around us.
So let's talk about
deafness in that sense,
which is where I have
certainly had to deal with it
and where many people
listening deal with it,
deaf to the inside messages
because even you'll even
hear them and say, oh, no.
>>BLU: Yeah, it's confirmation
bias around the stories
that we tell ourselves.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BLU: Well, this
is my narrative,
and this is what works for me.
And I'm going to put those
blinders at horses where that
actually stop us from being
able to really fully understand
all 360 of the experience
that's been presented.
It's also a deafness towards
our own internal truth
of what really actually
lights us up from the inside.
>>REGINA: Yeah, absolutely.
>>BLU: From the moment that
we're born, we're told a name,
and we're given a religion
and a social background.
And we've been given these
labels of who we think
that we are supposed to be.
And then we're also told what
success is based off of what
society deems as successful.
And so we mold ourselves to
these versions of ourselves
that we think will be
deemed as is acceptable,
and then actually realizing
that what's happened
is we're listening to the world
to listening to ourselves.
And it creates a deafness
to be able to actually hear
what is going on outside.
There's so much
noise in the world.
There's so much noise.
>>REGINA: There is.
>>BLU: Even just
before this interview,
there was a lot of people
and things going on--
>>REGINA: I know, swirling.
>>BLU: --for us to actually
sit down and get quiet,
and then to be able to find that
common thread between the two
of us.
And so like you
said, you don't have
to have a physical deafness
to have the deafness gene key
nor do you even need to
have the deafness gene
key in your chart.
>>REGINA: My life's
purpose is the first gene
key in deafness is the shadow.
And I listen for a living.
>>BLU: And it's also--
it is your superpower
because before I even
came on this interview,
the reflections I had about
who it was that you were
is that you ask brilliant
questions because
of your ability
to listen to that
which is needed to bring forward
the gold in the interview.
So as much as we may oscillate
into the shadow of being
happy in my own story and
not really actually hearing
what is going on in
the world, you also
have a great gift
within that same shadow.
And so the shadow is the seed.
It's not fully actualized yet.
And then you have the
flower, which is the gift.
seedy, which is the fruit.
And so instead of judging
ourselves for, oh,
I've noticed, this is just
you coming from a deep level
of self-awareness.
You're recognizing actually
that, oh, because I've actually
read the shadows--
>>REGINA: I ignored
what I heard.
>>BLU: Exactly.
You started to pull it forward
into your conscious awareness.
You're now pulling it forward
into your awareness and going,
OK, oh, this is the
art of contemplation.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BLU: Oh, I see
it showing up here.
Oh, here it shows up, too.
Oh, and now this
is what it means
to turn knowledge into wisdom.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BLU: You implement it.
>>REGINA: So let's move through
then into the gift of it
because people that have-- many,
many people watching have this.
So let's move into
the gift that follows.
>>BLU: Insight, the ability
to actually hear the whispers
of your own heart, the ability
to hear what it that is being
asked of you outside of from
inside with your relationship
with that cannot be named as
opposed to what is expected
from you from the noise
of the outside world,
the regurgitation of
everybody's thought process.
Pure originality is
born in the silence
of being able to truly listen.
And so there's hearing,
and there's listening.
And there's different
layers to the deafness
of recognizing actually to a
certain degree a lot of people
are deaf.
>>REGINA: The
reason I bring it up
is this, some time ago I
heard myself saying this.
Someone was going
on about something.
And I said the bottom
line in the world today
is everybody's talking,
and nobody's listening.
And I find that a true state--
I found it to be
a true statement.
After it came out of my mouth
I thought, why did I say that?
And I realized that is what
I witnessed because everybody
has so much anxiety now.
And I think a lot of it has to
do with media and social media,
to be seen, to be known,
to be acknowledged.
Then there's so much
more opportunity
for so many more eyeballs to
come on to a person because
of technology that everything
is about projecting, projecting,
projecting more than receiving.
And so I noticed
that was almost a--
how do I say?
It was like an attempt
to hang on to whatever
identity people have
of themselves to keep
sharing, sharing,
sharing, sharing, talking.
So if they stop talking,
they'd lose the thread
to who they are.
And I see that a lot now that.
That in the last 10
years that has radically
changed the world because
everyone's talking,
but no one's listening.
>>BLU: And the fact
that you can see it
is the very piece in where
your service is born from,
recognizing that which
is needed on the planet.
And so your lenses have become
sensitive to that very unique
piece where you can actually
use your life's work
to recognize a deep level
of listening actually
extract the best out of people.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I
was born to do that.
>>BLU: Which is
what you're doing.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and
that's what I do.
I mean, I'm very lucky.
I'm aligned with my purpose
and make a living at it.
That's an unusual
position to be in.
And I'm deeply
grateful for that.
So the 43, we've just examined.
And I wanted everyone
to be able to look
at their own piece in a
society where we are all
talking over each other.
And that means we're not
listening to each other.
And so the depth of what can be
had by way of listening, to me,
is the gold of life.
That's where we start having
our epiphanies and our insights.
So that's gene key number 43,
which you and I both share.
That's in my case,
my life's purpose.
And in your case it's what?
>>BLU: It's in my pearl.
It's my programming
partner and my pearl.
It's such a huge
part of my brand.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BLU: A deep
level of listening.
I have a podcast.
I have a show, so it's like
listening to the guests.
And the piece and
the significant shift
is to listening to understand
as opposed to listen to respond.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BLU: And it hits different.
I want to understand you.
>>REGINA: Yeah, totally,
totally different.
>>BLU: And then the
richness of the responses
come from a deep level of
heart as opposed to the mind.
>>REGINA: Yes.
We were talking off
camera and I thought
we can all ignore aspects
of self that are just
maybe a little bit heavier.
We don't really want
to get-- we're not
ready to unpack at the
moment or something
or then there's just
something-- and I'm
going to ask you about this.
You have used hearing aids.
And I was watching a show
on a cochlear implant.
And the woman
wanted it reversed.
She could not stand
what the world
was once she was hearing
all of this noise
that we're now referring to.
It's a noisy place out there.
So in your case,
what happened to you
when you start dialing
back into all that noise.
>>BLU: When I put the hearing
aids in, it so jarring.
Apparently it takes three weeks
to adjust to hearing aids.
As it's almost like metallic.
It's like--
>>REGINA: Metal grinding.
>>BLU: Yeah.
And noises that I would
never hear before,
which is like the spoon
on the bottom of a bowl.
And I'd be in the other
room and I'm like, ow.
It was really jarring.
And it served its
purpose in a sense
of if I'm in a group
sharing circle,
and somebody is talking,
and I just need to hear,
I just need a little
bit of assistance.
I'll put them in.
However, for me right now,
my relationship with them
is that I'm training myself
to hear beyond my ears.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BLU: And I actually
got into music for that--
for many reasons, one being that
I am learning to feel music as
opposed to hear it.
And Beethoven was
100% deaf and made
music that lasted long after
his life because his ability--
>>REGINA: Which is still
hard to get our minds
around that could be, yes.
So you're developing
that extra sense.
>>BLU: I'm strengthening
And also my life's work
or part of my life's work
is to invite others
to strengthen that
even if your hearing
isn't going anywhere.
It's to recognize
we don't strengthen
the muscle of our extrasensory
as much as we can.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BLU: And it can be such an
incredible ally in this life.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And when we were off
camera, I said my corollary
to that is my sight.
I have very poor vision.
It's like on a scale of 20, 20.
It's 20, 4, 50, 4, 75.
It's like double legally blind.
And I love it.
I don't put my eyes in normal--
I have to come here
because I can't see
my script, or you, or anything.
But at home, I don't put
my eyes in, my contacts in,
until I'm ready to
leave the house.
And I thought Renoir
had vision problems.
That's why his paintings
are so fuzzy and soft.
And in the day, I
think it's easy to--
that's all they were--
some of the impressionists
were able to see because
they had poor vision as well.
And that's what my world looks
like, very sophomore Monet.
And it's beautiful.
There's something
about it that just a--
it takes the hard edges
off like that tinny sound
that you're talking about.
I have the hard edges of
the world that I look at,
probably at least half the time.
And I love it, personally.
>>BLU: I love that you love it.
It makes me so happy
that you're loving it.
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>BLU: And if you look at Greek
mythology, you'll see the Sias.
They are the
archetype of the Sia.
They usually blind--
>>REGINA: Well, that's true.
>>BLU: --because they
see more than most.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>BLU: Not needing the eyes,
same thing with the hearing
is the hearing when
decreased actually
becomes a truth filter because
it's navigating through energy.
Like dogs, they navigate
through energy, not necessarily
through words, or appearance, or
how many followers you already
have online, or any
of that sort of stuff.
So that's the same with your
eyesight is your ability
to see more than most and
combine that with your scorpion
nature--
>>REGINA: Yeah,
we're both Scorpios.
>>BLU: I knew this
conversation--
>>REGINA: We're both
Valentine babies.
Both of our mothers
enjoyed Valentine's Day.
Here we are.
My sister's birthdays
one day after mine,
so I know my mom
enjoyed Valentine's Day,
nine months out.
OK, let's go to another key
that you and Richard and I all
have but it has a shadow
that almost all of society
seems to have.
And it's almost
generationally epidemic.
So let's go to the number 56.
>>BLU: Distraction.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BLU: With the gift or
the city of intoxication.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah,
my favorite part.
But let's talk about
that because it's
almost as though
in mass our society
is living on distraction.
>>BLU: Yes.
>>REGINA: So it's
impacting certainly
I think people probably
under the age of 60, even 70
because we're all now
plugged into technology
and the distraction around
us of constant bombardment
of information.
Very enticing and
seductive little posts
that come through, and boom
we're down the rabbit hole.
So let's talk
about that, key 56.
>>BLU: Well, our greatest
spiritual currency that exists
is our attention.
That's why it's constantly
being fought for all the time.
And if we have an app on our
phone that we don't pay for,
then we are the product.
>>REGINA: Yes, we are.
>>BLU: Our attention
is the product.
We can give a little bit of
context of even just that.
It allows us to understand
what we're actually
working with here
is that there is
a spiritual warfare around our
attention that's happening.
>>REGINA: Oh, you bet.
>>BLU: Constantly.
>>REGINA: Intentional.
>>BLU: And so also
recognizing, yes,
as we talk about the overarching
theme of "The Gene Keys"
being our greatest challenges
so a greatest gift, you, me,
and Richard, which brings me
so much delight to know that we
all share the same gene
key in the same position--
>>REGINA: In the same place,
right here in the center.
>>BLU: --is the
core of our being,
which is the ability
to associate people
with our presence.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BLU: And we're
not talking about I
think intoxicated on a
good whiskey over here
but intoxication in the
sense of when you have
my full, undivided attention,
I can intoxicate you
into a place of timelessness
with my presence that
allows you to feel fully seen,
fully acknowledged, and fully
loved, which is the greatest
gift we can ever give anybody.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BLU: Now, if we
are distracted,
we're going to suck
life out of the space.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It's like what was
happening with all the noise
in the room earlier.
It's like, what?
I can't even-- what's going on?
>>BLU: Yes, exactly.
And I'm right there with you.
I feel that exact
same piece is it's
like a scattered energy
of recognizing that just
like water.
Water has the power.
When it is focused to cut
glass, it can be that powerful.
However, also when
it's not focused more
like a sprinkling
system, then it's
actually not that powerful.
And so that, the
sprinkling system
is like us and our distraction.
It's like, oh, I'm a
little bit over here,
a little bit over there.
It's very watered down.
It's very unfocused.
It's not powerful.
And so the training for us is
that from the moment that we
wake up to the
moment we go to bed,
are we monitoring
our distractions
and training the mind to be
present with every single
thing, whether it's washing the
dishes, having a phone call,
or having an interview?
How present are we?
And how can we bring
our full focus into that
and strengthen that muscle so
that we are recognizing, oh,
our weaknesses to
become very distracted?
Also a superpower is to
be super intoxicating.
And so how can I train myself
in the mundane moments,
in the in-between moments to
train my focus so that when
I am sitting with
whatever it is,
I have my undivided attention?
And recognizing that gift
over a series of time
with a series of
interactions will
start to plant very
potent seeds everywhere we
go because somebody that
feels seen and somebody that
feels acknowledged
and somebody that
feels like they have
your undivided attention
leaves a wake of beauty--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BLU: --in our passage.
>>REGINA: And so you tend
to work a lot with women.
And we already said you do gene
key interpretation for people
to help guide them to seeing
the beauty within themselves
and planting these seeds
you just talked about.
So one of your things
is the sisterhood,
pulling women together
after thousands
of years of pulling
each other's hair out
and competing with one another
and denigrating ourselves.
Like I said, with the
women reading their gifts
in "The Gene Keys,"
oh, no, that's not me.
Yes, it is you.
So let's talk about how
this all weaves together
for you and your resistance
to develop a true sisterhood.
>>BLU: I think your example is
such a perfect example of what
you just said.
Oh, no, I don't have
that within myself.
Yes, you do.
Ultimately, when
we can actually sit
in a relationship
with a group of women
and to transcend competition
into inspiration,
it's a one degree
shift to the right.
However, that's when our
geniuses can start to swap.
The second we're comparing
ourselves with somebody else
is when there is a block
between being able to receive
the gift of each other.
And how I like to
see it is like we're
like individual pieces of fruit.
You're a watermelon, and
I'm an apple, for example.
Now, if an apple was to
try and be a watermelon--
I'm like, oh, I wish I
was a little bit more
like the watermelon--
it's completely bypassing
the gift of it being apple.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>BLU: So recognizing
that we all
have our own flavor and
our texture and smells
and colors and
vibrancy and the second
we try to be like
somebody else is
the second we bypass
them the genius that
is who we are by birthright.
And so by being in the
presence of other women
recognizing there is a
core wound in humanity,
and it's women turned
against each other, women
competing for attention,
women recognizing
if I don't get attention,
this is directly
linked to my survival.
>>REGINA: Well, it has been.
>>BLU: It has been,
and it has been.
>>REGINA: Historically
it has been.
>>BLU: And that is stored
in the memory of our DNA.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BLU: However, it is not
the actual truth right now.
So what it's doing is
feeding an illusion,
which is creating separation,
which is allowing us to restore
the balance on the planet.
So sisterhood is
essential to the evolution
of our collective consciousness,
our individual consciousness,
and about allowing
to receive ourselves
beyond our own illusions.
>>REGINA: How do you do that?
How do you model
it so that we're
living in this balance
between the yin and the yang
with each other and within?
>>BLU: It's a little
bit like the gene
keys in the sense of
it's all encompassing
that we go into the
shadow define the gift.
We don't bypass the shadow
and go, oh, love and light.
On this hand, it's hold hands
in a circle wearing white
and call ourselves goddesses.
>>REGINA: That's
what's beautiful.
You're right.
"The Gene Keys" does
not-- this is not kumbaya.
You look at your whole self.
>>BLU: We go down,
in, and then up.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BLU: It's not, ah, prr.
It's just a bypass.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BLU: And there's a lot
of bypassing that happens
in this virtual community.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BLU: And so the mantra
that we bring forward,
which was relayed by one of
my teachers and a dear sister
is the most sacred
thing is what is.
So if you're feeling rage,
if you're feeling anger,
if you're feeling jealousy,
if you're feeling separation,
if you're feeling division
inside of your being,
bring it to the altar.
It is welcome here.
We will love that, too.
We love the dark
side of the moon
as much as the light
side of the moon.
We cannot have the light side of
the moon without the dark side
of the moon.
And also recognizing
that we get to make peace
with the dark feminine
that lives within us too
and recognizing that's the
all encompassing feminine.
And so if a sister brings
forward a unpopular opinion of,
oh, actually you
said this and it
made me feel this certain
way, we embrace it.
We accept it.
We welcome it.
We break it down.
And we recognize
that actually this
is the medicine because
within the trigger,
there's a five Ts, Trust
That Trigger To Teach.
So instead of ostracizing
it, oh, well this
is an uncomfortable feeling,
then she's not welcome back,
this is actually
a very deep issue
within the spiritual community
is how can we lean deeper
into this?
>>REGINA: Yes.
And there is a--
even in the shadow, the
shadow for the shadow sake,
the reason we indulge
that is because we're
getting something out of it.
It can be a repetition of an
old pattern that's familiar.
And that might be just
where our comfort is.
It's like, yeah, I felt
like this a long time.
I'm telling myself
the same story.
I keep on doing that.
So I think to dive into, how
does that story act surely
make you feel when you
tell yourself that?
Is it still working for you?
And are we ready to
transform that story
because it actually gives me
a bit of a knot in my stomach
and--
>>BLU: Contraction.
>>REGINA: --grinding
and judgmental
is what comes out of it.
And then out of
judgement, judgmental
is how a person can feel
superior over another person.
So, I mean, people are getting
something out of their shadows,
which oftentimes can
even come from past lives
and past experiences in
their lives and trauma.
So to go in and
feel it like, yeah,
what am I getting out of
it, I think it's important.
Before you let go of it, what
am I getting out of this shadow?
>>BLU: It's essentially we
can only move through it
by going into it and
through it and feeling
into the entirety of our beings.
And so within these
spaces that we create,
we also have safe places to
express the shadow nature.
And there's an
exercise that we do
is called oracleing, which
is we go in the center,
and whatever is most alive,
we give full permission to it.
And that could be
ragging into a pillow.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BLU: That could be like
yelling out to the world
and being held and
witnessed within it.
And so it's about
going into the crunchy.
It's like feeling the crunchy
from the entirety of it
and having a healthy outlet
because where we get sick
is when we don't allow ourselves
to feel the entirety of what
is moving through us.
And so we need safe spaces on
this planet we genuinely feel.
>>REGINA: We do.
And the thing is the
interesting ironic thing
of it is if we're watching
a film, for example,
and our heroine or
our hero breaks down
in the most vulnerable part
of themselves comes seeping
through, and they're a
heap of tears, that's
when our hearts crack
open, and we love them
because we recognize the
vulnerability not just
in each other but in ourselves.
We relate to it.
We spend all of our lives
trying to show us the best side.
That's the thing
about social media
I'm not happy about,
everyone showing
their sizzle reel, their best
side, their hot, wise self.
They're not seeing the
rest of the person.
And so we keep doing that.
But in fact, it's that
vulnerable, little, frightened
piece that every person
has somewhere in there
that we actually are called
forth by in each other.
So it's OK to
recognize the shadow.
That's the perfection
of "The Gene Key" work.
Yes, I have that.
Yes, I was stupid.
Yes, I paid the price
because I was deaf,
willfully deaf, mind you.
[CHUCKLES]
>>BLU: Yes.
And that actually is
where true power lies.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>BLU: It's the all
encompassing claiming
of that which has been,
that which is here,
and that which I'm moving
into in my full humanness
because it's our humanness
that connects us.
It's not the shiny,
polished photo.
>>REGINA: There's nothing
new under the sun.
We all share these basic,
common human traits
to one degree or another.
So we're just about out of time.
So I want to say there's
so much more to talk about.
But just go ahead and share
with us any final thoughts
you have on this whole topic.
>>BLU: Well, I would just
have to say acknowledgment
of thank you so much for
bringing this topic forward.
Richard Rudd, I believe, is a
genuine real life wizard and--
>>REGINA: He really is.
And everyone loves him.
He's loveable.
He's just so gracious and kind.
>>BLU: And he's
extremely humble.
>>REGINA: Yes, he is.
>>BLU: What I
appreciate so deeply
is that the profanity of the
teachings of "The Gene Keys."
and if you just open
the book and just absorb
a couple of sentences, you
realize how dense it is.
And then meeting him in person
and his innocence and his--
>>REGINA: Sweetness.
>>BLU: --humble nature and
his love and his relatability
allows me to truly
understand what
it means to recognize of
saying, this came through me
as an expression and as
transmission to the collective.
And I am still a
forever student.
And there is no hierarchy.
There is no pedal stalling.
There is no-- or this person
has all of the answers,
and they're just
telling all of us
but to actually truly understand
the essence of what it means
to be a student of
life until the moment
we take our last breath
and to just from that
place of being a
student of life,
share what works, share
what doesn't work, create
a level of relatability,
and to transcend
the pyramid into a
circle where we are all
equals in our own expression
and our own nature,
and we all bring a
peace to the table
and recognizing everybody
has a superpower,
and everybody has a challenge.
Nobody is exempt.
>>REGINA: Nobody's exempt.
>>BLU: And so if we can
embrace our challenge
as much as we embrace the
beautiful parts of ourselves,
that is where the
true power lies.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And you've said it perfectly.
And you're still a
very young woman.
And you have this profound tool
and power about you already.
You're going to do wonderful
things in the world--
>>BLU: Thank you so much.
>>REGINA: --because
of your deafness.
I love it.
Thank you so much, Blu, for
taking the time to be here.
And I think you're-- especially
because you are in the world
of social media and such, you
bring a depth and spirit to it
that I think is really needed.
>>BLU: Thank you so much.
>>REGINA: So thank you.
>>BLU: Truly an honor.
>>REGINA: You can connect with
Blu's work via her podcast
"Deja Blu," B-L-U, no E on
it, and her Mystery School
Fluorescents.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[BACKGROUND MUSIC]